Curiosity Report Topic: Serverless Technology


AWS Lambda: AWS Lambda is a popular and powerful option when it comes to serverless tools. AWS Lambda allows the user to create functions that hook up to respond to http requests, triggers in another functions, or even to sqs queues. When they are triggered they run their funcitonality and perform whatever task is required of them. This is useful because it works well with other AWS services and is easily connected to with those. It is all on the cloud which keeps it serverless. It is event driven meaning some other occurence triggers the lambda to run. In AWS there are ways to produce concurrency, many of these lambdas can easily be populated to handle large request amounts. 

Serverless tools allow the programmer to move the server onto a cloud based server, thus it being serverless. These cloud providers deal with the management and logistics of these serverless options. This allows the application to be abstracted, easy to scale, and has functions as services. Other than AWS, there is also Google Cloud functions, Azure functions, and IBM Cloud functions. Reduced costs, improved scalability, and flexibility are all benefits that serverless options provide. It can also be used to easily schedule events to happen at certain times. These reduce a lot of overhead as well and are usually very easy to work with. 

Often these services are considered frictionless because it reduces much of the overhead that the programmer has to deal with and delegates it to a cloud service. It seems this architecture choice is applied in big companies as well and can be scaled up to that size. Netflix is one of these that uses a serverless architecture. They have millions of users and have to manage a lot of data. They do this with serverless and it works well. Another company that uses it is coca-cola. Coca-cola uses machines around the world that dispense drinks. Back before 2016 it cost roughly 13,000$/year to operate one machine. This was for the computing costs, management, security, etc. After switching over to a serverless framework this cost dropped to about 4,500$/year. This significant decrease in cost was due to the implementation of serverless.There are many benefits to serverless architecture and even big companies use this in their daily production.